### Threads
Threads are the unit of execution on a processor. The process can be made up of one or more threads which execute different tasks.
- All the threads in a process share memory. They all have access to global variables.
- Each thread has keeps its own stack, program counter and registers.

#### Why use threads?
- Threads enable concurrency. Concurrency allows us to schedule multiple tasks on a single processor.
- *Concurrency* is about dealing with a lot of things at once. *Parallelism* is about doing a lot of things at once.
- I/O concurrency
    - Client sends requests to many servers in parallel and waits for replies.
    - Server processes multiple client requests; each request may block.
    - While waiting for the disk to read data for client X, process a request from client Y.
- Multicore performance: Execute code in parallel on several cores.
- Convenience: In background, once per second, check whether each worker is still alive.

#### Threading challenges
- Shared data 
    - e.g. what if two threads do n = n + 1 at the same time?
    - or one thread reads while another increments?
    - this is a "race" -- and is usually a bug
      - use locks (Go's sync.Mutex)
      - or avoid sharing mutable data
- coordination between threads
    - e.g. one thread is producing data, another thread is consuming it
    - how can the consumer wait (and release the CPU)?
    - how can the producer wake up the consumer?
        - use Go channels or sync.Cond or WaitGroup
- deadlock
  - cycles via locks and/or communication (e.g. RPC or Go channels)


#### Is there an alternative to threads?
  Yes: Some of them are listed here[Concurrency Models](2.1.Concurrency-Models.md) There are majorly an abstraction over the threads to overcome challenges we face in multi-threaded programming.