## Concurrency models
1. #### Threads and Locks
    - Eg: Thread class, synchronized, java.util.concurrent.locks, Exceutors
    - **Pessimistic Transactions** (locks) 

1. #### Atomic & Thread-local
    - Eg: atomic operations, Compare And Swap techniques (CAS), Software Transactional Memory, Clojure collections
    - **Optimistic Transactions** (compare-and-set) 

1. #### Functional Programming
    - Eg: Streams and Lamba, RxJava
    - **Shared Immutable State** (updated state is a new object, not a changed object)

1. #### Actors
    - Eg: concepts of postbox, actors, Erlang Approach, Akka Framework
    - **Unshared Mutable State** (State is held in an actor, that Actor gets all updates on a single thread)

1. #### Communicating Sequential Process
    - Eg: Go Routines
    - **Unshared Mutable State** (threads with unshread state; pipes communicate if needed with read-only data)

1. #### Data Parallism
    - Eg: GPU parallelism, Image processing, machine learning computations algorithms, vector computing for graphics.
    - **Unshared Mutable State** (Every data item is acted on seperately in parellel) 

1. #### Map Reduce
    - Eg: divide & conquer of data, Hadoop, Spark Framework
    - **Shared Immutable State** (`map()` and `reduce()` get unshared data)

1. #### Event Driven
    - **Single Theaded**: Eg: Vertx Framework, Node.js
        - **Unshared Mutable State** (one thread executed at a time) 
    - **Multi-threaded**: Eg: CompleteableFutures in java, Kafka Framework
        - **Shared Immutable State** (Copies of data)

1. #### Grid Computing
    - Eg: Apache Ignite, Hazalcast
    - **Pessimistic Transactions** (With **Optimistic Transactional Optimizations**)


### Why so many models?
**Shared Mutable State**
- **Shared**: Data storage that is used by *more than one thread*
    - if the data is not shared across threads, then there is no concurrency problem
    - Unshared is thread local state, and sequential programming
- **Mutable**: Data storage that is *updated* at some point with new data
    - if the data item doesn't need changing, there is no concurency problem.
    - Immutable data structures are good, they can be passed across threads without any problems.
- **State**: Data storage with data
    - No stateful computation is like executing pure function across core's or machines.

**Combinations of these three many concurrency difficult.**

### Shared Mutable State + Transactions
- Either we try to eliminate any one of *Shared/Mutable/State*.
- Or, we use Transactional Operations
    - **Pessimistic Transactions**
    - **Optimistic Transactions**

#### Pessimistic Transactions
- In Pessimistic Transactions, locks are acquired during the first read or write access (depending on the isolation level) and held by the transaction until it is committed or rolled back.
- Example: Two threads one generating Odd, other generating Even, we need to print numbers in sequence. We need pessimistic locking here. 

#### Optimistic Transactions
In Optimistic Transactions, Delay the checking of whether a transaction meets the isolation and other integrity rules (eg: serializability and recoverability) until its end, without blocking any of it’s read, write operations and abort the transaction to prevent the violation, if the desired rules are to be violated upon it’s commit.
- Example: 
	- We have `_version` field in many of web, transactions. 
	- Bugzila uses edit conflicts and call *mid-air collisions*.
	- Elasticsearch does it using `version` attribute. 

#### Semi-Optimistic Transactions
Block operations in some situations, if they may cause violation of some rules and don’t block in other situations while delaying rules checking (if needed) to transaction’s end as done with optimistic.
- Example: 
    - IRCTC Ticket booking


#### Summary
Each of the high level concurrency models listed are designed to avoid one the words **{Shared/Mutable/State}** or **use a transaction**. 
- Stateless:
- Shared Immutable State: Functional Programming, Lamba architecture, Streaming Architecture.  
- Unshared Immutable State: Actors, Single-Threaded Events, Data Parallelism, Communicating Sequential Processes
- Optimistic transactions: Atomic & Thread-local; ( Grid Computing )
- Pessimistic transactions: Threads & Locks; ( Grid Computing )

Only **Functional programming** and **Communicating Sequential Processes** have the potential to eliminate this problem.  