## Basic of Typical File System Basics
- A structure defined over raw storage space; raw storage space is Hard Disk, SSD etc. 
- It is made of: Metadata + Data; for efficient storage and access. 

### An Inode
The inode (index node) is a data structure in a Unix-style file system that describes a file-system object such as a file or a directory. Each inode stores the attributes and disk block locations of the object's data.

An Inode number points to an Inode. An Inode is a data structure that stores the following information about a file:
- Mode/permission (protection)
- Owner ID
- Group ID
- Size of file
- Number of **hard links** to the file. (hard link is a directory entry that associates a name with a file)
- Time last accessed
- Time last modified
- Time inode last modified
- File protection flags
- Pointers to the blocks storing file’s contents | Disk Address

**Name** is not part of inode.

In Summary, the Inode contains the following information:
- Administrative information (permissions, timestamps, etc).
- A number of direct blocks (typically 12) that contains to the first 12 blocks of the files.
- A single indirect pointer that points to a disk block which in turn is used as an index block, if the file is too big to be indexed entirely by the direct blocks.
- A double indirect pointer that points to a disk block which is a collection of pointers to disk blocks which are index blocks, used if the file is too big to beindexed by the direct and single indirect blocks.
- A triple indirect pointer that points to an index block of index blocks of index blocks.

**Inode Total Size**:
- Number of disk block address possible to store in *1 disk block = (Disk Block Size / Disk Block Address)*.
- Small files need only the direct blocks, so there is little waste in space or extra disk reads in those cases. Medium sized files may use indirect blocks. Only large files make use of the double or triple indirect blocks, and that is reasonable since those files are large anyway. The disk is now broken into two different types of blocks: **Inode and Data Blocks**.
- There must be some way to determine where the Inodes are, and to keep track of free Inodes and disk blocks. This is done by a Superblock. Superblock is located at a fixed position in the file system. The Superblock is usually replicated on the disk to avoid catastrophic failure in case of corruption of the main **Superblock**.
- Index allocation schemes suffer from some of the same performance problems. As does linked allocation. For example, the index blocks an be cached in memory, but the data blocks may be spread all over a partition.

Thus raw storage looks like below: 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|  Data   |  Super  | Free data   | Free inode  |       Inode         |        Data        |
|  Block  |  Block  | block list  | list        |       Table         |       Blocks       |
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Links in the file system.
- **Hard Link**
- Each hard linked file is assigned the same Inode value as the original, therefore they reference the same physical file location. Hard links more flexible and remain linked even if the original or linked files are moved throughout the file system, although hard links are unable to cross different file systems.
- ls -l command shows all the links with the link column shows number of links.
- Links have actual file contents
- Removing any link, just reduces the link count, but doesn’t affect other links.
- We cannot create a hard link for a directory to avoid recursive loops.
- If original file is removed then the link will still show the content of the file.
- Command to create a hard link is:
    -`$ ln  [original filename] [link name]`

- **Soft Link**
- A soft link is similar to the file shortcut feature which is used in Windows Operating systems. Each soft linked file contains a separate Inode value that points to the original file. As similar to hard links, any changes to the data in either file is reflected in the other. Soft links can be linked across different file systems, although if the original file is deleted or moved, the soft linked file will not work correctly (called hanging link).
- ls -l command shows all links with first column value l? and the link points to original file.
- Soft Link contains the path for original file and not the contents.
- Removing soft link doesn’t affect anything but removing original file, the link becomes “dangling” link which points to nonexistent file.
- A soft link can link to a directory.
- Link across filesystems: If you want to link files across the filesystems, you can only use symlinks/soft links.
- Command to create a Soft link is:
    - `$ ln  -s [original filename] [link name]`

- Since in Linux, directory is a file as well. So even for directory there is inode.
- Directory is a file which contains a table of inode to file-name mapping.






