### Web Application Architecture

#### REST API
- Idempotency -> GET HEAD PUT DELETE
- POST PATCH are not idempotent 

#### HTTP Request     
TTL (Time To Live) per request it could be 30 to 60 secs varies browser to browser. 

#### HTTP Push Mechanism 
- Ajax long pollingNot as same as regular polling to server. 
- Web Socketsmozilla-doc 
- HTML5 Event Source & Server Sent eventsmozilla-doc
- Streaming over HTTPmozilla-doc
- Message Queues

Client side vs Server Side rendering of webpage

####  Scalability:
 - Latency: Latency is the amount of time a system takes to respond to a user request
	- Network Latency: CDN’s used to increase network latency
	- Application Latency: Caches/ pre processing of data etc.

- Vertical Scaling
- Horizontal Scaling

####  Primary Bottlenecks that Hurt the Scalability Of Our Application
- Database 
- Application Architecture 
- Not using Caching in Application wisely
- Inefficient Configuration & Setup of Load Balancers
- Adding Business logic to the Database
- Not Picking the Right Database
- Code level slowness
####  Strategies to improve scalability
- Profiling
- Caching
- CDN’s in network delivery 
- Avoid UnnecessaryClient Server Requests

####  High Availability (HA): 
An ability of the system to stay online despite having failures at the infrastructural level in real-time.

#### Fault-Tolerance: 
Ability of the system to stay up despite taking hits.

####  Redundancy: 
- Active-passive HA mode.
- Getting rid of Single points of failure
- Monitoring & Automation

#### Replication: 
- Active-Active HA mode. To bear the workload.
- Geographical distribution of workload

#### Load Balancing:
- DNS load balancing: load balancing at Authoritative Nameserver. Often used by companies to distribute traffic across multiple data centres that the application runs in. 
- Hardware load balancers: they are picked for higher performance & has a limitation of physical cost of failure and maintenance involved. 
- Software load balancers: can be installed on commodity hardware [Ex: HAProxy]
    - L3 load balancer 
    - L7 load balancer
     
- Algorithms for traffic/routing approaches
    - Round Robin & Weighted Round Robin
    - Least connections
    - Purely Random
    - Hash of source IP.

#### Micro-services vs Monolithic: 
Idea is to build services based on based on Single Responsibility & Separation of Concerns principles 
- Suppose if you want to scale any one service regardless of other services, micro service can help to replication that one service for higher availability.

#### Micro-Frontends
IFrame or use of module-federation like features




https://engineering.linkedin.com/architecture/brief-history-scaling-linkedin
https://segment.com/blog/goodbye-microservices/
https://segment.com/blog/introducing-centrifuge/




